new "type system concepts" section (#1743)
python/typing: docs/spec/typeddict.rst

TypedDict inheritance and totality (specifying whether keys are
required or not).

This section also provides a sketch of how a type checker is expected to
support type checking operations involving TypedDict objects. Similar to
:pep:`484`, this discussion is left somewhat vague on purpose, to allow

> experimentation with a wide variety of different type checking approaches.  In

Reviewer: ```suggestion
experimentation with a wide variety of different type-checking approaches.  In
```

Author: I'm going to consider this out of scope for this PR; I don't want this PR to become a global consistency pass on use of hyphens. That can be a separate PR :)

The "concepts" doc added in this PR consistently doesn't use a hyphen in "type checker" or "type checking" -- I thought that was due to your prior review comments, but I could be remembering wrong.

Reviewer: > The "concepts" doc added in this PR consistently doesn't use a hyphen in "type checker" or "type checking" -- I thought that was due to your prior review comments, but I could be remembering wrong.

It probably was due to those prior review comments! Unfortunately it's dependent on context whether a hyphen is appropriate or not. In most cases, "type checking" is used as a noun, in which case it should not be hyphenated. Here, it's not... though you could debate whether it's being used as an adjective or whether it's part of a larger compound noun ("type-checking approaches"). In either case, I think a hyphen helps clarify that "type checking" are intended to bind more tightly than "checking approaches".

But you're right that this is a pre-existing issue, so I'm okay with this being ignored :-)

particular, :term:`assignability <assignable>` should be structural: a more
specific TypedDict type can be assignable to a smaller (more general)

> TypedDict type.

Reviewer: Could perhaps clarify slightly what "structural assignability" means here:

```suggestion
TypedDict type even if the larger one is not an explicit subclass of the
smaller one.
```

Should "structural assignability" be added as a glossary term? You use it in the protocols doc as well

implementation.

> Assignability
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Structural Assignability of TypedDicts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

Author: I don't see this change as an improvement. We are in the typed dict doc, so "of TypedDicts" seems redundant in a sub-heading (and could be applied to every sub-heading in the document.) And the heading "Assignability" accurately describes the topic of the sub-section. Adding more qualifiers to it ("Structural Assignability") is confusing to me because it implies that maybe there is another kind of assignability for typed dicts which is discussed elsewhere.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's another kind of assignability? This section should apply the general concept of assignability to TypedDicts.

    class User(OptionalIdent):
        ident: str  # Required, mutable, and not an int

Note that these are just consequences of :term:`structural` typing, but they
are highlighted here as the behavior now differs from the rules specified in
:pep:`589`.

Assignability
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*This section updates the assignability rules described above that were created
prior to the introduction of ReadOnly*

A TypedDict type ``B`` is :term:`assignable` to a TypedDict type ``A`` if ``B``

> is :term:`structurally <structural>` assignable to ``A``. This is true if and
> only if all of the following are satisfied:

Reviewer: you could avoid saying "they're assignable because they're assignable" here ;)

```suggestion
is :term:`structurally <structural>` :term:`consistent` with ``A``. This is
true if and only if all of the following are satisfied:
```

Author: Maybe so, but the suggested way of saying it would be incorrect, since "structurally assignable" and "structurally consistent with" don't mean the same thing.

I could say "consistent subtype of", but that's just choosing to use our less-preferred synonym for assignable; I'm not sure that's an improvement.

I think in this case I want to say what it currently says: "typeddicts are assignable if they are structurally assignable, and here's what that means:"

The current way of wording that reads as a bit repetitive, but I think it's clear, which is the most important thing.
